Skip to content
grab your winter meal plan🍴
Nutriciously
Recipes
Articles
eBooks
Freebies
Start Here
Savory Vegan Zucchini Muffins
Vegan Recipes » Snacks

Photo of author by Alena Schowalter Oct 22, 2023
baked vegan savory muffins on plate
Jump to Recipe
Pinterest Hidden Image
Who said that muffins can only be sweet? Not us! You’ll devour these savory vegan zucchini muffins in no time.

Sometimes, you just crave a salty and hearty breakfast. Although we love our pancakes and smoothies in the morning, we’ve gotta shine the light on savory treats, too! 

Our muffins are your perfect breakfast companion — they’re loaded with yummy veggies and a hint of garlic to tie them together. 

vegan freebie galore 🤩

Grab all of our 9 vegan & healthy eating PDFs at once! Including food lists, meal plan, easy recipes, and shopping & nutrition tips!

Email address
Get the Freebies
Member Area Nutriciously
They’re perfect for meal prep as well! You can bake these at night and have them ready for many mornings afterward (but since they’re so good, they may only last you a few days). 

If you’re anything like us and enjoy savory breakfasts, you’ll love our savory vegan pumpkin waffles and savory vegan breakfast bowl!

Contentsshow
2 homemade savory muffins on top of each other
Recipe highlights
Unique and savory breakfast or snack
Packed with veggies
Hearty and nutritious
Meal prep-friendly
Portable for work or school
For these savory vegan zucchini muffins, you’ll need two bowls, measuring equipment, a mixing spoon, and a muffin tin!

zucchini, carrots, flour, nuts, and seeds on a table
Ingredients needed
Whole grain flour — a hearty flour with fiber.
Zucchini, carrot, and scallions — our veggie mix-ins!
Walnuts — for added texture, taste, and omega-3.
Ground flax — helps thicken and bind ingredients together. Also contains omega-3.
Soy milk — our vegan milk of choice! Substitute with any unsweetened vegan milk.
Apple cider vinegar — acidity to balance flavors. 
Baking powder — to help our baked goods rise.
Garlic powder, nutritional yeast, salt, pepper, nutmeg — seasonings for our savory treat!
Find exact measurements and additional serving suggestions below. Let’s get baking!

Best Vegan Zucchini Recipes →
shredding zucchini into a bowl
mixing zucchini and carrots with batter and vegan milk
How to make vegan savory zucchini muffins
Preheat the oven to 345 °F (175 °C). 

Combine the whole grain flour, walnuts, baking powder, garlic, flax, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and nutritional yeast in a large bowl.

Squeeze water from the shredded zucchini and carrot, then combine them with the scallions, soy milk, apple cider vinegar, and water in a large bowl.

Pour wet ingredients over the flour mixture.

Fold everything to get a thick batter. Add more soy milk if too dry and more grain flour if it is too wet. The consistency should be thicker than pancake batter but thinner than cookie dough batter.

Divide the mixture into muffin tins and bake for 40 minutes until golden. Remove from the oven and cool completely on the rack before serving.

woman stirring batter to make savory muffins
zucchini batter in muffin tins
Storage & reheating
Store your muffins, once cooled, in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 5 days. 

You can also store them in the fridge in an airtight container for up to 5 days. However, the fridge will alter the taste and texture, so keep that in mind. 

For the freezer, wrap muffins individually in a freezer-safe container and store for 2-3 months. Let them defrost at room temperature and reheat in the microwave or oven. 

freshly baked Vegan Zucchini Muffins with Almond Butter
Serving suggestions
Enjoy these savory vegan zucchini muffins as-is for a tasty snack or breakfast!

We also love adding a pat of vegan butter or almond butter on top and heating it in the microwave. When the butter sinks into the muffin, it’s even more rich and savory!

You can also pair them with a bigger meal, such as tofu scramble or crepes, and serve them for brunch! 

These muffins would taste even more delicious while sipping on a warm, spiced drink like a golden milk latte.

woman grabbing a homemade vegan zucchini muffin
FAQs & tips
How do I shred the zucchini and carrot?
There are a couple of ways! First, we recommended a box or cheese grater. It’s super simple and gets the right size.

You can also use a spiralizer and then quickly pulse the spirals in a food processor to break up the pieces. Additionally, you can find pre-shredded carrots at the stores!

My batter is super dry/too watery!
Have no fear! If your batter is too dry, add a little non-dairy milk at a time and mix. If it’s too watery, add a few tablespoons of flour at a time until it’s the right consistency. 

This batter consistency can vary for everyone because your veggie shreds may contain more or less water than what we tested. Simply make slow adjustments until the batter is right (thicker than pancake batter, thinner than cookie dough).

Can I substitute the whole grain flour?
We haven’t tested this recipe with other flour, so we recommended only using whole grain flour! The reason why it’s tricky to substitute is because whole grain flour results in a denser texture and cooks differently.

If you absolutely had to use a different flour, substitute it by weight instead of measuring cups.

More baked goods recipes
Vegan Blueberry Oatmeal Muffins 
Healthy Vegan Pumpkin Muffins 
Healthy Vegan Oat Bars
Fruity Sugar-Free Flapjacks
Did you make our savory vegan zucchini muffins and like them? We’d love to read about it, so be sure to leave a review and share it in the comments below. You can also Pin this recipe here!

woman grabbing a homemade vegan zucchini muffin
Print Pin
Savory Vegan Zucchini Muffins
by Alena Schowalter
Prep Time
15minutes minutes
Cook Time
40minutes minutes
Total Time
55minutes minutes
Add more vegetables to your baked goods by making these savory vegan zucchini muffins! Great for meal prep, breakfast, lunch, or as a snack.
Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark
Serves 
12
 muffins
Ingredients
▢3 cups whole grain flour 360 g
▢2 tsp baking powder
▢½ tsp garlic powder 1 - 1 ½ tsp for garlic lovers
▢1 cup walnuts finely chopped (100 g)
▢2 tbsp ground flax
▢2 tbsp nutritional yeast
▢1 medium zucchini shredded (200 g)
▢1 cup carrot shredded (110 g)
▢½ cup scallions finely chopped (50 g)
▢½ cup water 120 ml
▢½ cup soy milk 120 ml
▢1 tbsp apple cider vinegar
▢½ tsp nutmeg
▢1-2 tsp salt
▢⅓ tsp ground black pepper
Instructions
Preheat the oven to 345° F (175° C). 
In a large bowl, combine the whole grain flour, walnuts, baking powder, garlic, flax, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and nutritional yeast.
Use your hands to squeeze water from the shredded zucchini and carrot, then combine them with the scallions, soy milk, apple cider vinegar, and water in a large bowl, then pour over the flour mixture.
Fold everything to get a thick batter. Add more soy milk if it is too dry and more grain flour if it is too wet. The consistency should be thicker than pancake batter but thinner than cookie dough batter.
Divide the mixture into muffin tins and bake for 40 minutes until golden. Remove from the oven and cool completely on the rack before serving.
Notes
Shred your zucchini and carrot with a box/cheese grater! You can also find pre-shredded carrots at the store
Store leftovers in an airtight container at room temperature for up to 5 days.
Course: SnacksCuisine: American
 Show Nutrition Label
Rate and share if you like
Mention @nutriciously_ on Instagram or share this on Pinterest!
Fall Winter Meal Plan
Vegan Fall Meal Plan
Enjoy 7 days of healthy, colorful, and cozy meals and snacks! Everything is planned out with a full grocery list and meal prep session in our 60-page eBook.

learn more
Browse these categories

Snacks Breakfast Meal Prep Oil-Free Spring WFPB
Portrait photo of Alena
Hi, I'm Alena Schowalter — a Certified Vegan Nutritionist who has been a vegetarian since childhood and vegan since 2012. Together with my husband, I founded nutriciously in 2015 and have been guiding thousands of people through different transition stages toward a healthy plant-based diet. I enjoy discussions around vegan ethics, walks through nature, and creating new recipes. Read more about us here.

5 from 1 vote (1 rating without comment)
Leave a comment
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating
Comment

Name
Name *
Email
Email *

Alena
hi! I'm alena
A Certified Nutritionist who loves to share easy, healthy & tasty plant-based recipes and lifestyle guides on nutriciously. We make going vegan fun!

Read more →
browse our categories
Dinners

Breakfasts

Going Vegan

30-Minutes

Snacks

Lifestyle

Nutriciously Vegan Fall & Winter Meal Plan iPad
get our vegan fall & winter meal plan.
Enjoy 7 days of healthy, colorful, and cozy fall and winter-inspired meals and snacks! Fully planned out with a grocery list and meal prep session.

learn more
trending right now
Sweet Potato Curry with Rice in Bowl
Recipes for Fall

Woman with apron holding vegan burger in hands
High-Protein Meals

Bean Burritos
Beginner Recipes

Woman eating from bowl of vegan lentil soup
Soups and Stews

follow
Newsletter

Facebook

Pinterest

Instagram

Contact Us

Info
Our Affiliate Program

Blog / Web-Stories

Privacy Policy

Legal Disclosure

Cookie Policy

Recipes
Breakfast

Dinner

Dessert

Snack

Side

Articles
Going Vegan

Nutrition

Lifestyle

Cooking

Resources

© Nutriciously 2015-2025

made with ♥ by kindbytes

Vegan Guides & Tasty Recipes.