Skip to content
grab your winter meal plan🍴
Nutriciously
Recipes
Articles
eBooks
Freebies
Start Here
Vegan Chili Sin Carne
Vegan Recipes » Dinner

Photo of author by Alena Schowalter Mar 27, 2022
Top view of woman holding bowl filled with rice, bean chili, sliced avocado, vegan yogurt and sprinkled herbs
Jump to Recipe
Pinterest Hidden Image
This hearty and easy chili sin carne will be your new favorite weeknight dinner! Only healthy budget-friendly ingredients are needed for this flavorful and high-protein 30-minute meal.

If you like batch-cooking and deep flavor, you need to try this ultimate chili sin carne! It’s incredibly filling, full of veggies, fiber and plant-based protein.

Made from cheap staple foods such as beans, canned tomatoes and pantry spices, it’s incredibly accessible, savory and crowd-pleasing.

vegan freebie galore 🤩

Grab all of our 9 vegan & healthy eating PDFs at once! Including food lists, meal plan, easy recipes, and shopping & nutrition tips!

Email address
Get the Freebies
Member Area Nutriciously
This vegan chili sin carne is the perfect comfort food gone healthy, great for meal prep, and ready in only 30 minutes!

It’ll be sure to keep everyone coming back for seconds and it’s undetectably plant-based. If you love meaty vegan recipes, try our easy bean burritos, Mexican bowls, and chickpea meatloaf, too!

Contentsshow
What is chili sin carne?
Chili sin carne means chili without meat and uses plant-based protein like beans, cooked quinoa, mock meats or TVP instead of meat. You can flavor it the same way as traditional chili con carne and get a very similar result that’s vegan-friendly and rich in fiber!

Detail shot with shallow focus of woman holding bowl of vegan bean chili and dipping spoon into the food
Why you’ll love it
True win with any non-vegans
Budget-friendly & so easy to make
Savory, comforting & hearty
Protein-rich and fiber-rich
Features hidden veggies
Perfect for meal prep & easy to customize
There are so many reasons for making this hearty chili sin carne one of your must-have weekly meals!

Since it’s made mostly from pantry staples plus a handful of veggies from your fridge or freezer, there’s pretty much no instance in which you couldn’t make it.

Top view of woman cutting colorful vegetables an a wooden board with beans, corn and tomato paste placed in small bowls
Ingredients needed
Zucchini – subtle texture that’ll soak up all of the delicious spicy flavors
Carrot – giving the chili a nice bite and additional color
Bell pepper – high in vitamin C and adding some Mexican flavor
Kidney beans – recommended but can be swapped for black beans
Chickpeas – more plant-based protein, color, texture and yumminess
Corn – not sure if it’s a classic chili ingredient but blends in beautifully
Diced tomatoes – almost any canned tomato product can be used to bind everything together nicely
This one-pot chili sin carne doesn’t require many kitchen tools, either! A can opener, chopping board, knife, measuring equipment and a large pot is everything you need.

Close up of woman stirring with spoon to create a mixture for a vegan chili sin carne recipe
How to make vegan chili sin carne 
Sauté onion and garlic in a large pot over medium heat in a splash of vegetable broth or olive oil.
Add the chopped veggies and sauté for 5 more minutes.
Add the remaining ingredients: vegetable broth, diced tomatoes, tomato paste, corn, kidney beans, chickpeas, soy sauce, paprika, cumin and chili powder.
Stir well to combine, then let your chili simmer for 15 minutes.
Once it has thickened, remove it from the stove.
Adjust to taste preferences by adding more chili or salt, then serve warm!
Find the exact amounts for each ingredient and adjustment tips below.

Woman with cozy white sweater squeezing lemon over bowl of rice and chili
Serving & storage
Enjoy this chili sin carn on its own or serve with delicious toppings and sides, such as:

Brown or white rice
Bulgur, quinoa or buckwheat
Cornbread
Baked potatoes
Bread rolls
Tortilla chips
Avocado
Vegan sour cream
Coriander leaves
Vegan cheese shreds
Any leftovers can be stored in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 5 days or frozen for longer storage.

Top view of woman holding a bowl of vegan bean chili, sliced avocado and fresh herbs
Tips & replacements
Here are some great ideas to modify this recipe to your needs!

Veggies: feel free to omit any veggies or replace them with mushrooms, sweet potatoes, winter squash or celery. You can leave out the veggies entirely, too!
Beans: black beans, pinto beans and white beans can be used instead of kidney beans and chickpeas. We also like to make this recipe with red lentils, textured vegetable protein, crushed walnuts or crumbled tofu!
Spices: try adding some cocoa powder, smoked paprika, cayenne pepper and a spritz of maple syrup!
Make this recipe gluten-free by using tamari instead of soy sauce.

Be sure to chop the veggies really finely so that they are well hidden amongst all those beans!

Adjust the chili powder to your preferred level of hotness.

More healthy recipes
Try these family-friendly dinner ideas next!

Stuffed Bell Peppers
The Best Vegan Mac and Cheese
Creamy Mushroom Risotto
One-Pot Pasta Marinara
Cauliflower Buffalo Tacos
Let us know how you like our chili in the comments below and don’t forget to rate it! You can also Pin it for later.

Top view of woman holding a bowl of vegan bean chili, sliced avocado and fresh herbs
Print Pin
The Best Chili Sin Carne
by Alena Schowalter
Prep Time
10minutes minutes
Cook Time
20minutes minutes
Total Time
30minutes minutes
This hearty and easy chili sin carne will be your new favorite weeknight dinner! Only healthy budget-friendly ingredients are needed for this flavorful and high-protein 30-minute meal.
Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark
Serves 
4
Ingredients
▢4 cloves garlic minced
▢2 medium onions chopped
▢1 ½ cups vegetable broth divided (360 ml)
▢1 bell pepper finely chopped (150 g)
▢1 medium carrot finely chopped
▢1 small zucchini finely chopped
▢1 15- oz can diced tomatoes 420 ml
▢6 tbsp tomato paste 100g
▢1 cup corn kernels 160 g
▢2 cups cooked kidney beans 360 g, drained
▢1 cup cooked chickpeas 160 g, drained
▢3 tbsp soy sauce
▢1 tbsp paprika
▢2 tsp cumin
▢1 tsp chili powder
▢Salt to taste
Toppings (optional)
▢Vegan sour cream
▢Avocado
▢Cilantro
Instructions
Heat up a large non-stick pot over medium-high heat. Dry sauté the garlic and onion until slightly soft. Use a splash of olive oil if wanted to make the chili richer!
Add half a cup of the vegetable broth, the bell pepper, carrot, and zucchini. Sauté for another 5 minutes, stirring occasionally.
Now, add all remaining ingredients (the rest of the vegetable broth, diced tomatoes, tomato paste, corn, kidney beans, chickpeas, soy sauce, paprika, cumin, and cayenne). Stir well, then let the mixture simmer, uncovered, for another 15 minutes until it has thickened.
Add more cayenne and salt to taste, then serve warm on its own or with rice, tortillas, baked potatoes, or cornbread. Enjoy!
Notes
You can use any veggies you like in place of the zucchini, carrot, and bell peppers. The overall amount can be increased or decreased to your preference – just adjust the liquid accordingly.
The kidney beans and chickpeas can be swapped for any other beans like black beans or white beans.
If you’re looking for a more “meaty” experience and extra chewiness, you can add some textured vegetable protein to the bean chili.
Adjust hotness through the amount of chili, and feel free to experiment with smoked paprika or a hint of cocoa powder.
Course: DinnerCuisine: Mexican
 Show Nutrition Label
Rate and share if you like
Mention @nutriciously_ on Instagram or share this on Pinterest!
Fall Winter Meal Plan
Vegan Fall Meal Plan
Enjoy 7 days of healthy, colorful, and cozy meals and snacks! Everything is planned out with a full grocery list and meal prep session in our 60-page eBook.

learn more
Browse these categories

Dinner 30-Minutes Beginner Recipes Fall Family-Friendly Gluten-Free High-Carb Low-Calorie Meal Prep Mexican Nut-Free Oil-Free Protein WFPB Winter
Portrait photo of Alena
Hi, I'm Alena Schowalter — a Certified Vegan Nutritionist who has been a vegetarian since childhood and vegan since 2012. Together with my husband, I founded nutriciously in 2015 and have been guiding thousands of people through different transition stages toward a healthy plant-based diet. I enjoy discussions around vegan ethics, walks through nature, and creating new recipes. Read more about us here.

36 Comments
Deb
May 19, 2017 at 2:04 pm
Your recipe for the Simple Vegan Chili Sin Carne recipe has “1/2 cayenne” – is that a half-teaspoon or what?

Thanks.

Reply
Lars Schowalter Avatar
Lars
May 19, 2017 at 3:17 pm
Yes, we meant 1/2 tsp. Thanks for the tip and sorry for the confusion – I just went ahead and corrected it. Hope you like the recipe and of course you can tweak the amount of cayenne depending on how spicy you like it (we like it hot & spicy!). :)

Reply
Albert Bevia
Jan 14, 2018 at 7:05 pm
It is a really cold day here in Spain and this chili sounds so amazing! love the touch of paprika
and cayenne

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Jan 22, 2018 at 12:37 pm
Thanks so much for the feedback – hope this really hit the spot for you :)
Warm wishes from Thailand x

Reply
Carla
May 8, 2018 at 12:40 pm
5 starsthis was so yum!

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Jul 6, 2018 at 10:55 am
Happy to know, thanks for your feedback!

Reply
Tamara
May 29, 2018 at 1:43 am
Really nice recipe, easy to follow and low calories :) Tastes awesome too! Thank you :)

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Jul 6, 2018 at 10:56 am
Hey Tamara, thanks for your nice feedback – we’re happy you liked it :)

Reply
Viviane
Mar 7, 2019 at 2:08 pm
Thanks, it sounds wonderful. Can you tell me if it’s good to add some “protéines de soja texturé” (soy beans textured proteines ?) (sorry, I’m French and writing from Paris).

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
May 22, 2019 at 2:01 pm
Hey Viviane, merci beaucoup! Yes, you can use textured soy protein – this will give a wonderful meaty texture :) Enjoy and let us know how you liked it!
Bisous to France from Germany :)

Reply
Sofi
May 20, 2019 at 3:45 am
5 starsHello, I want to know if you have a cookbook that I can buy ??

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
May 22, 2019 at 2:03 pm
Thanks so much for your appreciation, Sofi! Yes, we have some cookbooks you can buy – find them here: http://nutriciously.com/products/
Feel free to get in touch if you have any questions :)

Reply
Kenneth Mundt
Oct 8, 2019 at 9:31 pm
Great, simple recipe. My first vegan meal. Amazing.

Reply
Ann Marie Kearney
Feb 8, 2020 at 6:23 pm
So good! Love all the ideas for ways to serve this. Easy to follow directions

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Feb 12, 2020 at 10:48 am
thanks so much for the lovely feedback :) what did you serve it with?

Reply
Marnie
Mar 7, 2020 at 6:14 am
Love this recipe! Its so comforting and yum. We put guacamole on top too, which was awesome!

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
May 1, 2020 at 11:58 am
Hey Kathy,
thanks for the feedback and sorry about the experience! I know this can be so annoying. We just check with our phones (Apple & Android) and everything was fine on our end – what exactly happened when you tried to access it?

Reply
Anonymous
Dec 2, 2020 at 1:25 pm
Hi guys! The photos are speaking themself; you’re cozier just looking at them. This recipe is ideal for warming inside when getting colder outside. For the recipe, do you use fresh, canned or frozen corn? Thanks so much!

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Dec 2, 2020 at 2:35 pm
thanks for the feedback :) I always use canned corn but frozen will also work when you add it soon enough so it becomes nice and warm!

Reply
Monika Gajdek
Dec 5, 2020 at 8:03 pm
5 starsWe all loved it! 3.5 and 1.5 year Olds too! Thank you!

Reply
Ashley
Feb 21, 2021 at 2:13 pm
Hi! I tried this recipe and it turned out amazing! I was looking at lots of different recipes and came across this one which looked the nicest!
Thank you

Reply
Sandy P
Apr 11, 2021 at 1:53 pm
5 starsLove this dish! My partner and I have added it into our recipe rotation. It’s so full of goodness and the flavours really come through especially the day after it’s been cooked.

Reply
Kathe
May 19, 2021 at 2:39 am
In the nutrition information for this recipe, the saturated fat is listed as 11g, which is half the recommended daily value. What ingredient(s) contribute that much fat? I’m baffled — or maybe just ignorant.

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
May 20, 2021 at 3:39 pm
Hi Kathe,
sorry the nutrition information isn’t super easy to read! It says “total fat: 11g; saturated fat: 2g; trans fat: 0” This seems to be more accurate, right? The saturated fat is probably from the avocado mostly.
Hope this helps!
Best wishes

Reply
Carol White
Sep 22, 2021 at 6:58 pm
I LOVE this chili. When i made it the first time, it was too spicy for me, but after the 3 or 4th bowl, i began to LOVE it!!!! I use fresh corn off the cob when available, the tiny can of tomato paste, and whole cans of each bean to make it easier and not waste the remainder of the cans. I dice up most of the veggies, but like to keep the carrots in like nickel sized slices to have some larger texture in there. I make it all using my dutch oven and it smells amazing while cooking!!! I get quite a few servings and since i’m the only one in my family that eats it, i freeze half. I use the first batch for lunch for 2 or 3 days, and then a week or so later, defrost the rest and finish that week for lunch. i love that i have a filling and healthy lunch quick and easy! Thanks so much for this great recipe. I’ll be looking around your site to see if there are any other make ahead healthy dishes i can use for lunch!!!

Reply
Sarah
Nov 13, 2022 at 7:59 pm
Can you recommend cooking instructions for an instapot, please? Also, when do you suggest adding the TVP? Thanks! Love this recipe.

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Nov 22, 2022 at 11:25 am
Hi Sarah, add the TVP along with the beans to the pot. It’ll have time to soften and soak up all flavors! Cook it in an Instant Pot by sautéing the veggies first (in the IP), then adding the rest of the ingredients and cooking for around 8 minutes. It’s been a while since I made this chili in an IP, so I hope I remember the time correctly.

Reply
Jess
Jan 17, 2023 at 8:21 pm
I had this for the first time last night and WOW this recipe is SO DELICOUS!!! It will be added to our frequent rotation!!!!! My coworker tried some too and she loved it and asked for the recipe.

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Jan 24, 2023 at 5:08 pm
wow, this sounds fantastic, Jess! Thanks so much for sharing, really happy you all liked our chili :)

Reply
Kerstin
Apr 27, 2023 at 8:01 pm
Made this recipe for some Mexican workers here in Florida and they came for more. They know I am vegan for some plus 20 years and thought this chili would boring . They rated it excellent

Reply
Tabea
Jun 15, 2023 at 6:46 pm
4 starsIndeed the best vegan chili! It’s really delicious. I used Fava beans instead of Kidney beans and Cousa Squash instead of the Zucchini. Next time i’m making this I’ll add not as much chili and paprika tho, it was definitely too hot for my personal taste.

Reply
Tabea
Jun 15, 2023 at 8:54 pm
Where can I find this recipe on Pinterest? I’d like to save it!

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Jun 17, 2023 at 11:41 am
Hi Tabea, here it is: https://www.pinterest.com/pin/548735535853278652/ :) Glad you like it!

Reply
Renee
Aug 7, 2023 at 5:14 pm
2 starsi’m confused in ingredients list it says chili powder in recipe it says cayenne? i am a recipe follower not an improviser.

Reply
Lori
Sep 26, 2023 at 11:50 pm
I noticed it said 73 grams of fiber, is that correct?

Reply
Alena Schowalter Avatar
Alena
Sep 27, 2023 at 5:27 pm
Hi Lori, unfortunately, I cannot check which ingredients the program uses to calculate the nutrition right now! It does seem like way too much ;) Better double-check!

Reply
4.66 from 66 votes (60 ratings without comment)
Leave a comment
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating
Comment

Name
Name *
Email
Email *

Alena
hi! I'm alena
A Certified Nutritionist who loves to share easy, healthy & tasty plant-based recipes and lifestyle guides on nutriciously. We make going vegan fun!

Read more →
browse our categories
Dinners

Breakfasts

Going Vegan

30-Minutes

Snacks

Lifestyle

Nutriciously Vegan Fall & Winter Meal Plan iPad
get our vegan fall & winter meal plan.
Enjoy 7 days of healthy, colorful, and cozy fall and winter-inspired meals and snacks! Fully planned out with a grocery list and meal prep session.

learn more
trending right now
Sweet Potato Curry with Rice in Bowl
Recipes for Fall

Woman with apron holding vegan burger in hands
High-Protein Meals

Bean Burritos
Beginner Recipes

Woman eating from bowl of vegan lentil soup
Soups and Stews

follow
Newsletter

Facebook

Pinterest

Instagram

Contact Us

Info
Our Affiliate Program

Blog / Web-Stories

Privacy Policy

Legal Disclosure

Cookie Policy

Recipes
Breakfast

Dinner

Dessert

Snack

Side

Articles
Going Vegan

Nutrition

Lifestyle

Cooking

Resources

© Nutriciously 2015-2025

made with ♥ by kindbytes

Vegan Guides & Tasty Recipes.