Skip to content
grab your winter meal plan🍴
Nutriciously
Nutriciously
Recipes
Articles
eBooks
Freebies
Start Here
Wholesome Vegan Broccoli Soup
Vegan Recipes » Dinner

Photo of author by Alena Schowalter Mar 7, 2024
two bowls of vegan broccoli soup with almond milk on a table
Jump to Recipe
Pinterest Hidden Image
Chilly days call for warm, comforting bowls of soup! Our vegan broccoli soup features aromatic onion and garlic, protein-packed chickpeas, and is made with almond milk. 

If you’re a soup lover, you’ll definitely enjoy our vegan broccoli potato soup! It’s nutritious and a fun balance of textures. 

You get a creamy base with rustic bits of potato and broccoli for variety. It’s also topped with crispy chickpeas and fragrant herbs.

vegan freebie galore 🤩

Grab all of our 9 vegan & healthy eating PDFs at once! Including food lists, meal plan, easy recipes, and shopping & nutrition tips!

Email address
Get the Freebies
Member Area Nutriciously
Our vegan broccoli soup is perfect for a cozy evening in. Prepare in batches or enjoy with the family! (And make sure to get some bread for dipping.)

For more comfort food, try out our lentil veggie soup or broccoli potato casserole!

Contentsshow
two bowls of vegan broccoli soup on a table
Why you’ll love it
Hearty & satisfying
Easy to prepare!
Texture-rich
Aromatic with a hint of umami
Crowd-pleaser with families
For this recipe, you’ll need a baking sheet, cutting board, pot, measuring utensils, and immersion blender!

broccoli, potato, onion, veggies, and spices
Ingredients needed
Broccoli, celery, spinach, potatoes, onion, garlic — our delicious veggies for our soup base!
Vegetable broth and almond milk — add creaminess and flavor.
Almond butter, nutritional yeast, soy sauce — for a punch of cheesy, umami flavor
Nutmeg, black pepper, salt — seasonings to kick up the flavor!
Toppings — crispy chickpeas, seeds, and herbs
For exact measurements and serving suggestions, scroll below!

glass jar on a table filled with oil-free roasted chickpeas
How to make vegan broccoli potato soup
Roast the chickpeas
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C) and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. 

Add the chickpeas to the pan, season with salt and pepper, toss well, arrange in a single layer, and roast for 20 minutes until crispy. Let cool on the baking sheet.

Roasted Chickpea Recipe →
cutting vegetables t omake broccoli soup
broccoli and potatoes in a pot
Make the soup
Sautée the onion and garlic in a large pot with 2-3 tablespoons vegetable broth until fragrant.

Add the celery and potatoes to the pot, and cook for 2-3 minutes over medium heat. 

Add the broccoli florets, almond milk, vegetable broth, and soy sauce to the pot, stir to combine, and bring to a boil over medium heat.

Turn the heat to low and simmer for 10 minutes. Add the spinach, mix, and simmer for 5 more minutes.

Add the nutritional yeast, almond butter, and nutmeg to the pot, and use an immersion blender to blend until you get the desired consistency (we kept it chunky and rustic).

Add salt and nutritional yeast to taste.

Divide into serving bowls, garnish with toasted seeds of choice, fresh aromatic herbs, and roasted chickpeas, and serve warm.

adding spinach to a pot of soup
blending vegan broccoli soup
Storage & reheating
Let cool, then store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 3-4 days. In the freezer, it’ll last for up to 3 months.

Reheat the soup in a pot over the stove. Heat on medium heat until warmed through and slightly bubbling. Or, reheat in the microwave in 45-second increments until warm. 

Serving suggestions
Our vegan broccoli soup is amazing with a slice of toasted bread! You can even dip our vegan cornbread in with the soup. It’ll soak up the flavor and be a truly amazing bite. 

You can also make this soup extra cheesy! Whip up a vegan cashew cheese and mix it with the soup.

More topping suggestions:

Vegan cheddar
Croutons
Olive oil drizzle
Roasted broccoli bits
Crispy cannellini beans
Crispy vegan bacon
Whatever you decide, our vegan broccoli potato soup will be the perfect bowl of comfort.

two hands holding a bowl of vegan broccoli soup with chickpeas
FAQs & tips
Do I have to use an immersion blender?
Nope! You can also pour the soup into a high-speed blender. Make sure the soup has cooled down a bit! Some blenders can’t handle the heat, so take proper precautions. 

Can I make this soup extra creamy?
Yes! Feel free to blend the entire mixture for a fully creamy soup! it’s also creamier when adding some almond creamer.

What should I serve this soup with?
Our soup is amazing with toasted bread! It’s great as an appetizer to a bigger meal like our vegan fettuccine alfredo!

More hearty recipes
Vegan Broccoli Recipes
Easy Vegan Soups
Satay Sweet Potato Lentil Curry
Vegan Thai Potato Curry
Vegan Chili Sin Carne
Did you make our vegan broccoli potato soup and enjoy it? We’d love to read about it, so be sure to leave a review and share it in the comments below. You can also Pin this recipe here!

two hands holding a bowl of vegan broccoli soup with chickpeas
Print Pin
Wholesome Vegan Broccoli Soup
by Alena Schowalter
Prep Time
5minutes minutes
Cook Time
20minutes minutes
Total Time
25minutes minutes
Chilly days call for warm, comforting bowls of soup! Our vegan broccoli soup features aromatic onion and garlic, protein-packed chickpeas, and is made with almond milk. 
Cook Mode
Prevent your screen from going dark
Serves 
4
Ingredients
▢1 large head broccoli cut into florets (6 cups) (480g)
▢2 celery stalks diced
▢3 cups fresh spinach 100 g
▢1 lb potatoes cubed
▢1 large yellow onion chopped (1 cup / 25g)
▢4 garlic cloves minced
▢1 15- oz can chickpeas, drained and rinsed 400 g
▢1 cup vegetable broth 240 ml
▢1 cup almond milk 240 ml
▢2 tbsp almond butter
▢2 tbsp nutritional yeast
▢1 tbsp soy sauce
▢¼ tsp nutmeg freshly grated
▢½ tsp black pepper
▢½ tsp salt
Toppings
▢Seeds
▢Herbs
▢Roasted chickpeas
Instructions
Roast the chickpeas
Preheat the oven to 400°F (200°C) and line a baking sheet with parchment paper. 
Add the chickpeas to the pan, season with salt and pepper, and toss well. Arrange in a single layer, and roast for 20 minutes until crispy. Let cool on the baking sheet.
Make the soup
While the chickpeas are roasting, make the soup.
In a large pot, sautée the onion and garlic with 2-3 tablespoons vegetable broth until fragrant.
Add the celery and potatoes to the pot and cook for 2-3 minutes over medium heat. 
Add the broccoli florets, almond milk, vegetable broth, and soy sauce to the pot, stir to combine, and bring to a boil over medium heat.
Turn the heat to low and simmer for 10 minutes. Add the spinach, mix, and simmer for 5 more minutes.
Add the nutritional yeast, almond butter, and nutmeg to the pot, and use an immersion blender to blend until you get the desired consistency (we kept it chunky and rustic).
Add salt and nutritional yeast to taste.
Divide into serving bowls. Then garnish with toasted seeds of choice, fresh aromatic herbs, and roasted chickpeas. Serve warm.
Notes
Let cool, then store in an airtight container in the fridge for up to 3-4 days. In the freezer, it’ll last for up to 3 months.
Check out our serving suggestions for yummy toppings + sides!
Course: DinnerCuisine: American
 Show Nutrition Label
Rate and share if you like
Mention @nutriciously_ on Instagram or share this on Pinterest!
Fall Winter Meal Plan
Vegan Fall Meal Plan
Enjoy 7 days of healthy, colorful, and cozy meals and snacks! Everything is planned out with a full grocery list and meal prep session in our 60-page eBook.

learn more
Browse these categories

Dinner 30-Minutes Beginner Recipes Fall Gluten-Free High-Carb Low-Calorie Meal Prep Oil-Free Protein Sides WFPB
Portrait photo of Alena
Hi, I'm Alena Schowalter — a Certified Vegan Nutritionist who has been a vegetarian since childhood and vegan since 2012. Together with my husband, I founded nutriciously in 2015 and have been guiding thousands of people through different transition stages toward a healthy plant-based diet. I enjoy discussions around vegan ethics, walks through nature, and creating new recipes. Read more about us here.

5 from 1 vote (1 rating without comment)
Leave a comment
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Recipe Rating Recipe Rating
Comment

Name
Name *
Email
Email *

Alena
hi! I'm alena
A Certified Nutritionist who loves to share easy, healthy & tasty plant-based recipes and lifestyle guides on nutriciously. We make going vegan fun!

Read more →
browse our categories
Dinners

Breakfasts

Going Vegan

30-Minutes

Snacks

Lifestyle

Nutriciously Vegan Fall & Winter Meal Plan iPad
get our vegan fall & winter meal plan.
Enjoy 7 days of healthy, colorful, and cozy fall and winter-inspired meals and snacks! Fully planned out with a grocery list and meal prep session.

learn more
trending right now
Sweet Potato Curry with Rice in Bowl
Recipes for Fall

Woman with apron holding vegan burger in hands
High-Protein Meals

Bean Burritos
Beginner Recipes

Woman eating from bowl of vegan lentil soup
Soups and Stews

follow
Newsletter

Facebook

Pinterest

Instagram

Contact Us

Info
Our Affiliate Program

Blog / Web-Stories

Privacy Policy

Legal Disclosure

Cookie Policy

Recipes
Breakfast

Dinner

Dessert

Snack

Side

Articles
Going Vegan

Nutrition

Lifestyle

Cooking

Resources

© Nutriciously 2015-2025

made with ♥ by kindbytes

Vegan Guides & Tasty Recipes.