Visit Sweet  Simple  Shelf Love  Plenty More  Plenty  NOPI  Jerusalem  Flavour  Falastin  Extra Good Things  Cookbook  Comfort
ottolenghi.co.uk
Skip to content
Ottolenghi Books
Home
Recipes
Articles
Favourites
Ingredients A-Z

https://www.recipe.com/images/campari-cocktail.png
  
Logout
Categories
Desserts
Campari and grapefruit sorbet
Categories
Gluten-freeNut-free

500ml - fresh ruby red grapefruit juice (from 2–5 grapefruit, depending on their size and juiciness)
60ml - lemon juice
100ml - orange juice
200g - caster sugar
80ml - Campari
Notes
Ideally, an ice cream maker is needed to churn the sorbet. If you don’t have one, you can churn it yourself, stirring the mix every few hours to break up the formation of ice crystals before returning it to the freezer.

Once churned, the sorbet will keep in the freezer for about 1 week.

 SERVES 6 (AT THE END OF A MEAL), 12 (IN THE MIDDLE) OR MORE (AT THE START OF A MEAL)
About
This is so refreshing and party-like that it can be served at pretty much any point during a meal. Before you start eating, for example, with a splash of Prosecco on top; as a palate-cleanser between courses; or for dessert in frosted Martini glasses with one of the Cats’ Tongues alongside and possibly also a naughty extra glug of Campari. Don’t be tempted to use pale yellow grapefruit here: you really want the ruby red variety, as it provides both the shock of colour and the sweetness you want to bring to the party. Once you’ve made the sorbet, you’re all set to make the Chocolate-coated Ruby Red Grapefruit Peel, if you like, as you’ll have the peel all ready to go. If you don’t want to do this straight away, collect the peel in a zip-lock bag and store it in the fridge for up to 3 days.

Method
If you are going to make the Chocolate-coated Ruby Red Grapefruit Peel, follow the slicing instructions in that recipe, retaining the flesh for use here, and storing the peel until ready to use. Otherwise, cut each grapefruit in half and remove the flesh. Make sure there are no pips in the flesh, then place it in a blender or food processor and blend until the grapefruit is crushed. Strain it into a bowl through a fine-mesh sieve: you need 500ml of juice, so feel free to drink any excess (or make a cocktail with it).
Add the lemon and orange juice to the grapefruit juice and mix together. Pour 250ml of this into a small saucepan with the sugar, and set the remaining juice aside. Heat the pan over a low heat, stirring until the sugar is dissolved, then set aside for 10 minutes to cool. Pour this into the remaining juice, add the Campari, and chill completely by setting it over an ice bath or placing it in the fridge.
Once chilled, transfer to an ice cream maker and churn until soft waves form. Transfer the sorbet to a container, cover with cling film – so that the cling film is actually touching the surface of the sorbet, to prevent ice particles forming – and seal the container. Freeze until firm enough to scoop into a glass, and serve.
© Yotam Ottolenghi 2021 — Photography © PEDEN + MUNK
Register Title
Please answer the following question to add Title to your bookshelf:
Please wait...

Your answer
By clicking add to my bookshelf, I consent to you using my details to send me the above newsletter, and confirm that I have read and understood Penguin Random House’s Privacy Policy.

 