Visit Sweet  Simple  Shelf Love  Plenty More  Plenty  NOPI  Jerusalem  Flavour  Falastin  Extra Good Things  Cookbook  Comfort
ottolenghi.co.uk
Skip to content
Ottolenghi Books
Home
Recipes
Articles
Favourites
Logout
Categories
Cooked Veg
Roasted butternut squash with lentils and dolcelatte
Simple 10 ingredients or lessSimple make ahead
Categories
Gluten-freeNut-freeVegetarian

1 - large butternut squash, unpeeled but cut in half lengthways, deseeded and cut into 1cm thick half-moons or wedges (950g)
2 - red onions, cut into 3cm wide wedges (320g)
3 tbsp - olive oil, plus extra to drizzle
10g - sage leaves
100g - Puy lentils (or 235g if starting with ready-cooked)
1 - large lemon: finely grate the zest to get 1½ tsp, then juice to get 2 tbsp
1 - garlic clove, crushed
5g - parsley leaves, roughly chopped
5g - mint leaves, roughly chopped
10g - tarragon leaves, roughly chopped
100g - dolcelatte, torn into 2cm pieces (optional)
salt and black pepper
 Serves six as a side
About
I like to serve this with the squash and lentils still a little warm – so that the cheese slightly melts when it’s dotted over – but it also works at room temperature, if you want to make it in advance. Make up to the point of adding the dolcelatte and set aside for up to 6 hours. Add the final elements just before serving. If you start with ready-cooked lentils, then skip the stage where they get simmered and just add them straight to the bowl with the lemon, garlic, herbs and so forth.

Method
Preheat the oven to 220°C fan.
Place the squash and onions in a large bowl with 2 tablespoons of oil, the sage leaves, ¾ teaspoon of salt and plenty of pepper. Mix well, then spread out on a large parchment-lined baking tray. Roast for 25–30 minutes, until cooked and golden-brown. Remove from the oven and set aside to cool for 10 minutes.
While the squash is in the oven, fill a medium saucepan half-full of water (if starting with dried lentils rather than ready-cooked) and place on a high heat. Once boiling, add the lentils, reduce the heat to medium and simmer for 20 minutes, until cooked. Drain, set aside to cool slightly, then place in a large bowl. Stir in the lemon zest, lemon juice, garlic, herbs, remaining 1 tablespoon of oil and ¼ teaspoon of salt.
Add the squash and onion to the lentils and stir gently. Transfer to a serving bowl, dot with dolcelatte, drizzle with oil and serve.
© Yotam Ottolenghi 2021 — Photography © PEDEN + MUNK
Register Title
Please answer the following question to add Title to your bookshelf:
Please wait...

Your answer
By clicking add to my bookshelf, I consent to you using my details to send me the above newsletter, and confirm that I have read and understood Penguin Random House’s Privacy Policy.

 